README.md, before:

# ADB Proxy


## Quick Intro

ADB, the Android Debug Bridge, is what allows an Android Device to talk to a computer for transfering files, installing apps, debugging, etc.

It consists of several parts, tipically:

- An Android Device, usually attached to your computer via an USB cable
- An application, like AndroidStudio or the `adb` CLI
- An ADB server, running in your computer and usually listening to `localhost:5037`, which intermediates the communication between devices and applications

While this setup works fine for local development, sometimes I need to access a device somewhere else to test or debug something device-specific.

To address this scenario, ADB-Proxy connects to 2 ADB servers and intermediates communication between them:

- On the local computer, it acts as a local device, connected via TCP.
- On the remove server, it acts as an application and that communicates with a specific device.

When ADB-Proxy is running, the device appears to be attached to both computers

## Usage

### Direct connection

The easiest way is to have SSH access to the desired remote machine:

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy connect -s device_serial -J me@othercomputer
```

To attach the device identified by `device_serial`, attached to `othercomputer` to the local computer.

### Reverse connection

Unfortunately a direct connection is sometimes impossible. In this case, you can listen on the local
computer and start a reverse connection from the remote end:

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy listen-reverse mycomputer:port      # e.g.: 1.2.3.4:5678
user@othercomputer$ adbproxy connect-reverse -s device_serial mycomputer:port
```

#### SSH Jumps

If the `mycomputer` is not directly reachable from `othercomputer` you can add SSH jumps (`-J`) along the way. Some examples:

```bash
# Both computers reach gatewaycomputer by SSH and use it as an intermediary
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy listen-reverse localhost:port -J user@gatewaycomputer
user@othercomputer$ adbproxy connect-reverse -s device_serial localhost:port -J user@gatewaycomputer
```

```bash
# othercomputer can reach mycomputer over SSH
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy listen-reverse mycomputer:port
user@othercomputer$ adbproxy connect-reverse -s device_serial localhost:port -J user@mycomputer
```

```bash
# othercomputer can reach gatewaycomputer directly (gatewaycomputer must be configured with `GatewayPorts yes`)
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy listen-reverse gatewaycomputer:port -J user@gatewaycomputer
user@othercomputer$ adbproxy connect-reverse -s device_serial gatewaycomputer:port
```

#### UPnP Gateways

If you are behind a NAT and your router has UPnP enabled, `--upnp` can be used to automatically setup port forwarding on your gateway from public internet

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy listen-reverse --upnp
user@othercomputer$ adbproxy connect-reverse gateway_ip:gateway_port  # listen-reverse shows the gateway IP and Port
```

#### Ngrok
If your computer cannot be reached directly (You are behind a NAT or firewall), your router doesn't support UPnP, you cannot set up port forwarding directly and
don't have access to an SSH server to use as a gateway.... We can fallback to using Ngrok as a gateway.

Go to ngrok.com, create an account and setup your SSH key. Now you can run with `--ngrok`:

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy listen-reverse --ngrok
user@othercomputer$ adbproxy connect-reverse ngrok_host:ngrok_port  # listen-reverse shows the Host and Port to use
```


### DeviceFarm

[DeviceFarm](https://aws.amazon.com/pt/device-farm/) is an AWS service for automatic testing of Android and iOS apps.

Using reverse connections and a special test spec, it is possible to attach to a remote device:

To use it, ensure you have:

  - `~/.aws/config` file setup with your region and access keys
  - A project created on DeviceFarm
  - A device pool with the device you want to attach to

The connectivity options are the same as those for reverse connections

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy device-farm --project="MyProject" --device-pool="MyPool" my_ip:port  # Assuming my_ip is available externally
```

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy device-farm --project="MyProject" --device-pool="MyPool" gateway_ip:port -J user@gatewaycomputer  # Assuming gateway_ip is available externally
```

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy device-farm --project="MyProject" --device-pool="MyPool" --upnp  # Will automatically set port forwarding from a public ip
```

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy device-farm --project="MyProject" --device-pool="MyPool" --ngrok  # Will automatically use ngrok as  a gateway
```

## Iteractive session with `scrcpy`

ADB connection is nice and all, but an interactive screen that you can see and click is essential!

I highly recomend [Genymobile's scrcpy](https://github.com/Genymobile/scrcpy) to fill that gap.

However, `scrcpy` has been optimized for low-latency local connections, and can be a sluggish when accessing a device thousands of km away.

I found that reducing the screen resolution and bitrate helps a lot, and I'm currently using:

    - `-b384k`: Bitrate 384kbps. Greatly influences image quality
    - `-m960`: Resize screen to half of its normal size (1920 in my case). Greatly influences latency

Commit message:

Make upnp and devicefarm optional extras

README.md, after:

# ADB Proxy


## Quick Intro

ADB, the Android Debug Bridge, is what allows an Android Device to talk to a computer for transfering files, installing apps, debugging, etc.

It consists of several parts, tipically:

- An Android Device, usually attached to your computer via an USB cable
- An application, like AndroidStudio or the `adb` CLI
- An ADB server, running in your computer and usually listening to `localhost:5037`, which intermediates the communication between devices and applications

While this setup works fine for local development, sometimes I need to access a device somewhere else to test or debug something device-specific.

To address this scenario, ADB-Proxy connects to 2 ADB servers and intermediates communication between them:

- On the local computer, it acts as a local device, connected via TCP.
- On the remove server, it acts as an application and that communicates with a specific device.

When ADB-Proxy is running, the device appears to be attached to both computers

## Installation

The easiest way to install is using PIP, from the git sources:

    pip install git+https://github.com/paulo-raca/adb-proxy.git

## Usage

### Direct connection

The easiest way is to have SSH access to the desired remote machine:

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy connect -s device_serial -J me@othercomputer
```

To attach the device identified by `device_serial`, attached to `othercomputer` to the local computer.

### Reverse connection

Unfortunately a direct connection is sometimes impossible. In this case, you can listen on the local
computer and start a reverse connection from the remote end:

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy listen-reverse mycomputer:port      # e.g.: 1.2.3.4:5678
user@othercomputer$ adbproxy connect-reverse -s device_serial mycomputer:port
```

#### SSH Jumps

If the `mycomputer` is not directly reachable from `othercomputer` you can add SSH jumps (`-J`) along the way. Some examples:

```bash
# Both computers reach gatewaycomputer by SSH and use it as an intermediary
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy listen-reverse localhost:port -J user@gatewaycomputer
user@othercomputer$ adbproxy connect-reverse -s device_serial localhost:port -J user@gatewaycomputer
```

```bash
# othercomputer can reach mycomputer over SSH
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy listen-reverse mycomputer:port
user@othercomputer$ adbproxy connect-reverse -s device_serial localhost:port -J user@mycomputer
```

```bash
# othercomputer can reach gatewaycomputer directly (gatewaycomputer must be configured with `GatewayPorts yes`)
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy listen-reverse gatewaycomputer:port -J user@gatewaycomputer
user@othercomputer$ adbproxy connect-reverse -s device_serial gatewaycomputer:port
```

#### UPnP Gateways

> :info: This section requires the installation of the `upnp` extras: `pip install git+https://github.com/paulo-raca/adb-proxy.git[upnp]`

If you are behind a NAT and your router has UPnP enabled, `--upnp` can be used to automatically setup port forwarding on your gateway from public internet

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy listen-reverse --upnp
user@othercomputer$ adbproxy connect-reverse gateway_ip:gateway_port  # listen-reverse shows the gateway IP and Port
```

#### Ngrok
If your computer cannot be reached directly (You are behind a NAT or firewall), your router doesn't support UPnP, you cannot set up port forwarding directly and
don't have access to an SSH server to use as a gateway.... We can fallback to using Ngrok as a gateway.

Go to ngrok.com, create an account and setup your SSH key. Now you can run with `--ngrok`:

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy listen-reverse --ngrok
user@othercomputer$ adbproxy connect-reverse ngrok_host:ngrok_port  # listen-reverse shows the Host and Port to use
```


### DeviceFarm

> :info: This section requires the installation of the `devicefarm` extras: `pip install git+https://github.com/paulo-raca/adb-proxy.git[devicefarm]`


[DeviceFarm](https://aws.amazon.com/pt/device-farm/) is an AWS service for automatic testing of Android and iOS apps.

Using reverse connections and a special test spec, it is possible to attach to a remote device:

To use it, ensure you have:

  - `~/.aws/config` file setup with your region and access keys
  - A project created on DeviceFarm
  - A device pool with the device you want to attach to

The connectivity options are the same as those for reverse connections

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy device-farm --project="MyProject" --device-pool="MyPool" my_ip:port  # Assuming my_ip is available externally
```

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy device-farm --project="MyProject" --device-pool="MyPool" gateway_ip:port -J user@gatewaycomputer  # Assuming gateway_ip is available externally
```

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy device-farm --project="MyProject" --device-pool="MyPool" --upnp  # Will automatically set port forwarding from a public ip
```

```bash
user@mycomputer$ adbproxy device-farm --project="MyProject" --device-pool="MyPool" --ngrok  # Will automatically use ngrok as  a gateway
```

## Iteractive session with `scrcpy`

ADB connection is nice and all, but an interactive screen that you can see and click is essential!

I highly recomend [Genymobile's scrcpy](https://github.com/Genymobile/scrcpy) to fill that gap.

However, `scrcpy` has been optimized for low-latency local connections, and can be a sluggish when accessing a device thousands of km away.

I found that reducing the screen resolution and bitrate helps a lot, and I'm currently using:

    - `-b384k`: Bitrate 384kbps. Greatly influences image quality
    - `-m960`: Resize screen to half of its normal size (1920 in my case). Greatly influences latency
